# 7-13-20

## Agenda

- Review unique characteristics of Python syntax
- Apply UPER to solve a code challenge in Python
- Build a Python class, complete with:

```python
 __init__()
__str__()
 __repr__()
```

- Differentiate between class and instance methods/variables.

### Create & manipulate lists

- Create an empty list

```python
​l = []
```

- Create a list with some numbers
  `​p = [1,2,3,4,5]`

- Add an element to p
  `​p.append(6)`

- Print all values in each list

```python
print(p)​

​for item in p:
    print(item)

for i in range(len(p)):
    print(f'Element {i} is {p[i]}')

# print the index
for (i, item) in enumerate(p):
    print(f'Element {i} is {item}')
```

### How are lists different from tuples? Sets? Dictionaries?

- Use list comprehensions to perform the same operation on all list elements

```python
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
print(numbers)
```

- Create a new list containing the squares of all values in `numbers`.

```python
​squares = [num*num for num in numbers]
​print(squares)
```

- Create a new list containing only the even values of `numbers`.

```python
evens = [num for num in numbers if num % 2 == 0]
```

​
`names = ["Sarah", "jorge", "sam", "frank", "bob", "sandy", "shawn"]`

- Create a new list containing only the names that start with `s` so that they are properly capitalized (regardless of how the name originally appears)

```python
s_names = [name.capitalize() for name in names if name[0].capitalize() == "S"]
```

​

### Dictionary exercise from module I project

​

```python
kiloHouse = {
    "lat": 88, "lon": 64, "name": "Kilo's house"
}

waypoints.append(kiloHouse)
print(waypoints)

waypoints[0] = {
    "lat": 43,
    "lon": -121,
    "name": "Not a real place"
}

for place in waypoints:
    print(place.items())
```

### Pass by value vs. reference

Define a doubling function that take in integers...

```python
def mult2(x):
  pass
```

And a doubling function that takes in a LIST of integers:

```python
def mult2_list(l):
  pass
```

Try out our functions. What will happen to the original arguments after we call the functions? Will they be modified? Or not?

```python
y = mult2(12)
print(y)
​
l = [3,7,13]
mult2_list(l)
​
for i in l:
  print(i)
```

​

### Review the 4 steps of UPER

Apply to the following mini-challenges:
​
Return the "centered" average of an array of ints, which we'll say is the mean average of the values, except ignoring the largest and smallest values in the array.

```python
centered_average([1, 2, 3, 4, 100]) → 3
centered_average([1, 1, 5, 5, 10, 8, 7]) → 5
centered_average([-10, -4, -2, -4, -2, 0]) → -3
```

​

- Build Python classes `store` and `category`, complete with:

```python
__init__()
__str__()
__repr__()
```

​

- Go over the Adventure Game starter code
  ​
  ​

### Next time...

- Understand the convention for "private" methods and vars in Python
- Explan LEGB rule for variable scope in Python
- Differentiate between class and instance methods/variables
- Demonstrate inheritance relationships with method overriding and use of super()
- Identify association in class design
