# 7-15-20

## Q: What are the 4 Pillars?

Encapsulation
Abstraction
Inheritence
Polymorphism

## What is Polymorphism?

It allows us to treat an object as it's most specific class or treat it as a parent class to overwrite a child class.

## What is Encapsulation?

To protect the private data in our class. So inner data cannot be accessed directly.

## What is Abstraction?

Hiding details that other classes/users don't need to know. Goal is provide just enough info to get a process done correctly.

## What is LEGB?

Local, Enclosing, Global, Builtin. These are different types of scope.

Scope in programming is when rules are governing where variables can be accessed.

Local(L): Defined inside function/class.
Enclosed(E): Defined inside enclosing functions(Nested function concept).
Global(G): Defined at the uppermost level.
Built-in(B): Reserved names in Python builtin modules.

LEGB goes in order L=>E=>G=>B.

## Inheritance

- Make sure you understand the difference between an association and a parent/child relationship.

### Store Example

Planning our store:

- Toys is a Category, Food is a Category. This is inheritance.
- Inventory and Category both have a `has-a` relationship with their items.
- Toys and Food have a `is-a` relationship with their items.
- Food has Prepared and Dry categories. So these further organize the items, and so on.

Creating our product class:

```python
class Product:
    def __init__(self, name, price=0):
        self.name = name
        self.price = price

    def __str__(self):
        return f'{self.name} is ${self.price}'

```

Let's create some Product child classes: Start with `from product import Product` in your crate.py file.

```python
class Crate(Product):
    def __init__(self, name, price, description, size, material):
        super().__init__(name, price, description)
        self.size = size
        self.material = material
```

A child class is "bigger" because it has everything the parent class has and more.

In order to print this crate, a string like the following is needed:

```python
def __str_(self):
    return f'{self.name} is ${self.price} and is made of {self.material}'
```

By using `super()` you can change the default string and modify the output.

```python
c = Crate("a crate", "desc", 99, "big", "plastic")

print(super(Create, c).__str__())
```

This produces `a crate is $99`. It used the parent string.

`print(c)` would use the child string: `a crate is $99 and is made of plastic`.

## How do we implement Association in Python?

```python
def __str__(self):
    return super().__str__() * f'and is made of {self.material}'
```

This creates `a crate: $99 and is made of plastic`. This uses concatination. Note: the ":" was updated in the Product string.
